hi I'm Chris base Burt and today I'm
going to show you a little tip on how to
utilize a stereo track that's kind of a
multiple monotype track in Pro Tools i'm
going to show you in this first video
i'm going to show you how i use this for
recording guitars when I want to record
the the DI alongside the signal from the
amp so here I've got a song in Pro Tools
just a just a quick little rock riff
here
got the guitar amp signal
and then the guitar di signal so the
reason I recorded di separate is if I
want to re-amp at a later time or if I
want to if I wanted to edit the the
guitar and make it really tight on onto
onto a grid or something like that it's
easier to see or if I want to put an
effect pedal on it at some point I've
got the clean di to do that with while
you're tracking while you're editing
basically that's just there just in case
you need it I don't want to be listening
to it so what I do is what I used to do
is I'd used to mono tracks 1 the amp one
the DI and then I would just mute the DI
as you can see my inputs here I've got
one and two different signals obviously
I stumbled upon this little trick that
actually helped me quite a bit in terms
of my session management and just my
workflow and being able to do various
things and keeping things neat and tidy
and that trick is to utilize a stereo
track to put both of these both of these
clips on to and then actually once I
started doing that I ended up just
starting to record onto the stereo track
instead of recording onto two mono
tracks and then changing later so let me
show you what I mean and then once you
figure out the concept you can apply it
to a bunch of different things and I'll
actually post a few other examples and
some other videos of examples of how you
could use this so so you have got my two
tracks here I'm going to go up to new
track select a stereo audio track and
there we go i'm going to rename this
track guitar i use a short form here an
abbreviated short form make sure that's
bust bust to where you want to go i want
to go to my mix buss and i'm also going
to label here in the comments the left
side is going to end up being my guitar
amp and the right side is going to end
up being a my
I i'll just bring the volume down a
little bit on that okay so here's the
magic of this all I'm going to drag both
these tracks down onto the stereo track
I'm going to play that for you not
exactly what we wanted right we've got
the amp on a left and then the DI on our
right first of all we want to the amp up
the middle
I don't even want to hear the DI h1 it
muted so here's where the fun comes in
to go up to your inserts and you select
a multiple mono plug-in and I use the
trim plug-in because it lets me mute and
adjust the volume and adjust the phase
so I usually this is the first plug-in
in my chain what I'm doing this and when
you open up the multiple mono there's a
little link button here that's usually
engaged you want to engage that and what
that lets you do is it lets you have
different settings for the left side and
the right side and really at this point
it's just it's just a two channel track
left and right is just a label we're not
using the left side for panning left and
right using the right side for painting
right we're just using the track as if
it was two mono tracks hence the
multiple model so in this particular
instance I don't want to hear the DI we
know the DI is on the right side go to
the right hit the mute button
and there you go now if you say all I
want to pan the guitar a little bit or
whatever you're not hearing the right
side so you just use the left hand knob
say oh I want to put an EQ on it okay
we'll put an EQ on it choose a multiple
mono eq and we'll go use the Trident
unlink it and just make the changes to
the right side so when you started to
the left side now when you switch the
right side everything's flat so you're
really only putting everything on the
side that you want it which is our amp
side the DI we want to leave clean and
we really just want to leave it there in
case we might need it now if I go and do
any editing so let's say I want to fly
this section here into the end of the
song you know or whatever you want to do
let's say you want to chop up this piece
and slide this whole thing back
everything stays together your di and
your amp that you record it at one time
and same signal everything stays
together you don't have to worry about
grouping if you go into playlists let's
say you want to make a bunch of
playlists all right here we go here's a
few playlists whatever and you like to
use the playlist view you can actually
edit your two tracks together now as far
as I know if you wanted to do the same
thing when you have two mono tracks
group together it's not quite as elegant
as what we're looking at right now so
there's just a bunch of different great
reasons as to why i use a stereo track
and utilize it as basically a multiple
mono track and here's one of the main
reasons and this is actually how i
stumbled upon the idea to do this like I
said now I set up I'll set up the stair
I'll set up a stereo track before I even
record and I really record my guitars
now like this onto a stereo track which
is with the right side the DI muted
whereas you I used to basically do it
separate and then put it on the stereo
track just to make it easier but I just
record onto it now it's part of
workflow so try that out and make sure
you check out my website Chris base for
calm and check out my other videos on my
youtube channel Chris base bird hope you
enjoyed this one and stay tuned for a
few more thanks for watching